README.rst, before:

==================
Django Async Redis
==================


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-async-redis.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django_async_redis

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/Andrew-Chen-Wang/django-async-redis.svg
        :target: https://travis-ci.com/Andrew-Chen-Wang/django-async-redis

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/django-async-redis/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://django-async-redis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status

Introduction
------------

django-async-redis is a full featured Redis cache and session backend for Django.

* Free software: Apache Software License 2.0
* Documentation: https://django-async-redis.readthedocs.io.

Requirements
------------

- `Python`_ 3.6+
- `Django`_ 3.0+
- `aioredis`_ 1.0+
- `Redis server`_ 2.8+

.. _Python: https://www.python.org/downloads/
.. _Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/download/
.. _aioredis: https://pypi.org/project/aioredis/
.. _Redis server: https://redis.io/download

User guide
----------

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install with pip:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m pip install django-async-redis

Configure as cache backend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start using django-async-redis, you should change your Django cache settings to
something like:

.. code-block:: python

    CACHES = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "django_async_redis.cache.RedisCache",
            "LOCATION": "redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1",
            "OPTIONS": {
                "CLIENT_CLASS": "django_async_redis.client.DefaultClient",
            }
        }
    }

django-async-redis uses the redis-py native URL notation for connection strings, it
allows better interoperability and has a connection string in more "standard"
way. Some examples:

- ``redis://[:password]@localhost:6379/0``
- ``rediss://[:password]@localhost:6379/0``
- ``unix://[:password]@/path/to/socket.sock?db=0``

Three URL schemes are supported:

- ``redis://``: creates a normal TCP socket connection
- ``rediss://``: creates a SSL wrapped TCP socket connection
- ``unix://`` creates a Unix Domain Socket connection

There are several ways to specify a database number:

- A ``db`` querystring option, e.g. ``redis://localhost?db=0``
- If using the ``redis://`` scheme, the path argument of the URL, e.g.
  ``redis://localhost/0``

In some circumstances the password you should use to connect Redis
is not URL-safe, in this case you can escape it or just use the
convenience option in ``OPTIONS`` dict:

.. code-block:: python

    CACHES = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "django_async_redis.cache.RedisCache",
            "LOCATION": "redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1",
            "OPTIONS": {
                "CLIENT_CLASS": "django_async_redis.client.DefaultClient",
                "PASSWORD": "mysecret"
            }
        }
    }

Take care, that this option does not overwrites the password in the uri, so if
you have set the password in the uri, this settings will be ignored.

Credit
------

- Hey, I'm Andrew. I'm busy in college, but I wanted to help contribute to Django's async ecosystem.
- Lots of code is taken from django-redis, including the tests.
  I just needed to port everything to asyncio and aioredis,
  but aioredis is not as full of capabilities as redis-py.
- I used cookiecutter-pypackage to generate this project.
- Thank you to Python Discord server's async topical chat for helping
  me understand when to use coroutines over sync functions.

Commit message:

Add tests for django-async-redis * Added several type hints for developers using django.core.cache but want the type hints from django_async_redis * Tests use conftest.py and a fixture that clears all free and closed connections from the current pool so that pytest is not stuck
Misc:

* Import several subdirectories' classes (e.g. JSONSerializer) to __init__.py
* Removed .idea folder
* Several type hints are here, but not fully covered everywhere
* Allow lint failure on master branch
* Added pytest.ini so that you can test with pytest instead of tox
* Fix README's links to several targets

Signed-off-by: Andrew-Chen-Wang <acwangpython@gmail.com>

README.rst, after:

==================
Django Async Redis
==================


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-async-redis.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-async-redis

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/Andrew-Chen-Wang/django-async-redis.svg
        :target: https://travis-ci.com/Andrew-Chen-Wang/django-async-redis?branch=master

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/django-async-redis/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://django-async-redis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status

Introduction
------------

django-async-redis is a full featured Redis cache and session backend for Django.

* Free software: Apache Software License 2.0
* Documentation: https://django-async-redis.readthedocs.io.

Requirements
------------

- `Python`_ 3.6+
- `Django`_ 3.0+
- `aioredis`_ 1.0+
- `Redis server`_ 2.8+

.. _Python: https://www.python.org/downloads/
.. _Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/download/
.. _aioredis: https://pypi.org/project/aioredis/
.. _Redis server: https://redis.io/download

User guide
----------

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install with pip:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m pip install django-async-redis

Configure as cache backend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start using django-async-redis, you should change your Django cache settings to
something like:

.. code-block:: python

    CACHES = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "django_async_redis.cache.RedisCache",
            "LOCATION": "redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1",
            "OPTIONS": {
                "CLIENT_CLASS": "django_async_redis.client.DefaultClient",
            }
        }
    }

django-async-redis uses the aioredis native URL notation for connection strings, it
allows better interoperability and has a connection string in more "standard"
way. Some examples:

- ``redis://[:password]@localhost:6379/0``
- ``rediss://[:password]@localhost:6379/0``
- ``unix://[:password]@/path/to/socket.sock?db=0``

Three URL schemes are supported:

- ``redis://``: creates a normal TCP socket connection
- ``rediss://``: creates a SSL wrapped TCP socket connection
- ``unix://`` creates a Unix Domain Socket connection

There are several ways to specify a database number:

- A ``db`` querystring option, e.g. ``redis://localhost?db=0``
- If using the ``redis://`` scheme, the path argument of the URL, e.g.
  ``redis://localhost/0``

In some circumstances the password you should use to connect Redis
is not URL-safe, in this case you can escape it or just use the
convenience option in ``OPTIONS`` dict:

.. code-block:: python

    CACHES = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "django_async_redis.cache.RedisCache",
            "LOCATION": "redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1",
            "OPTIONS": {
                "CLIENT_CLASS": "django_async_redis.client.DefaultClient",
                "PASSWORD": "mysecret"
            }
        }
    }

Take care, that this option does not overwrites the password in the uri, so if
you have set the password in the uri, this settings will be ignored.

Notes
-----

Since the majority of this code was ported from django-redis, there was one
case that had needed a monkeypatch. In ``django_async_redis.util``, we implement
``CacheKey`` which subclasses ``str`` which helps us know if a cache key was
already created. Since aioredis, checks if the cache key is of type str
(and others), I had to monkeypatch that check so that a CacheKey instance could
also be accepted.

Credit
~~~~~~

- Hey, I'm Andrew. I'm busy in college, but I wanted to help contribute
  to Django's async ecosystem.
- Lots of code is taken from django-redis, including the tests.
  I just needed to port everything to asyncio and aioredis.
- I used cookiecutter-pypackage to generate this project.
- Thank you to Python Discord server's async topical chat
  for helping me understand when to use coroutines over sync functions
  and @Bast and @hmmmm in general because they're OG.
